Adding more context to the rate limiting topic (#34925)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/performance/rate-limit-samples.md

---
title: Rate limiting middleware samsples
author: rick-anderson
ms.author: riande
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-7.0'
description: Samples for using ASP.NET rate limitng middleware
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 03/05/2025
uid: performance/rate-limit
---

# Rate limiter samples

The following samples aren't meant for production code but are examples on how to use the limiters.

### Limiter with `OnRejected`, `RetryAfter`, and `GlobalLimiter`

The following sample:

> * Creates a [RateLimiterOptions.OnRejected](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.RateLimiterOptions.OnRejected) callback that is called when a request exceeds the specified limit. `retryAfter` can be used with the [TokenBucketRateLimiter](/dotnet/api/system.threading.ratelimiting.tokenbucketratelimiter), [FixedWindowLimiter](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.ratelimiting.ratelimiteroptionsextensions.addfixedwindowlimiter), and [SlidingWindowLimiter](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.ratelimiting.ratelimiteroptionsextensions.addslidingwindowlimiter) because these algorithms are able to estimate when more permits will be added. The `ConcurrencyLimiter` has no way of calculating when permits will be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creates a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.RateLimiterOptions.OnRejected%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> callback that's called when a request exceeds the specified limit. `retryAfter` can be used with the <xref:System.Threading.RateLimiting.TokenBucketRateLimiter>, [Fixed Window Limiter](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.RateLimiterOptionsExtensions.AddFixedWindowLimiter%2A), and [Sliding Window Limiter](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.RateLimiterOptionsExtensions.AddSlidingWindowLimiter%2A) because these algorithms are able to estimate when more permits are added. The <xref:System.Threading.RateLimiting.ConcurrencyLimiter> has no way of calculating when permits are available.
```

* Adds the following limiters:

>   * A `SampleRateLimiterPolicy` which implements the `IRateLimiterPolicy<TPartitionKey>` interface. The `SampleRateLimiterPolicy` class is shown later in this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A `SampleRateLimiterPolicy` that implements the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.IRateLimiterPolicy%601> interface. The `SampleRateLimiterPolicy` class is shown later in this article.
```

  * A `SlidingWindowLimiter`:
    * With a partition for each authenticated user.
    * One shared partition for all anonymous users.

>   * A <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.RateLimiterOptions.GlobalLimiter> that is applied to all requests. The global limiter will be executed first, followed by the endpoint-specific limiter, if one exists. The `GlobalLimiter` creates a partition for each <xref:System.Net.IPAddress>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting.RateLimiterOptions.GlobalLimiter> that's applied to all requests. The global limiter is executed first, followed by the endpoint-specific limiter, if one exists. The `GlobalLimiter` creates a partition for each <xref:System.Net.IPAddress>.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/rate-limit/WebRateLimitAuth/Program.cs" id="snippet_1":::

> [!WARNING]

> >Creating partitions on client IP addresses makes the app vulnerable to Denial of Service Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing. For more information, see [BCP 38 RFC 2827 Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of Service Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp38).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Creating partitions on client IP addresses makes the app vulnerable to Denial of Service Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing. For more information, see [BCP 38 RFC 2827 Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of Service Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spoofing](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp38).
```

> See [the samples repository for the complete `Program.cs`](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/blob/main/fundamentals/middleware/rate-limit/WebRateLimitAuth/Program.cs#L145,L281) file.

Reviewer: Note that the line referencing approach "`#L145,L281`" won't work. Perhaps best to let the dev find the lines, especially given that the PU likes to move lines around.

```suggestion
For the complete `Program.cs` file, see [the samples repository](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/blob/main/fundamentals/middleware/rate-limit/WebRateLimitAuth/Program.cs).

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/aspnetcore-repo-ref-source-links.md)]
```
